Wind does not move sand gently and gradually. Below a certain
strength, nothing happens at all. Just above it, the sand erupts.
Here is bare sand. Below the threshold, the curve is
flat — dead calm on the ground. Above it, transport
explodes as roughly the cube of the wind speed.
Now add our living crust. The stickiness between grains means
the wind has to blow much harder before anything lifts
— the whole threshold slides to the right.
Take a wind that used to strip the bare surface.
On the treated sand, that exact same wind now sits
below threshold — it slides harmlessly over the top.
Raise the threshold above the winds a site actually sees, and the
dust simply stops flying. That is the whole goal of the crust.